video has emerged showing Palestinians
stripped and rounded up by Israeli
forces at a sports stadium in Gaza the
footage was released by the Palestinian
KS news agency it comes as the UN sounds
the alarm about Israel's treatment of
detainees the Israeli Army has rejected
criticism of that video in a statement
it says the individuals detained were
treated in accordance with international
law and that it's often necessary for
what it calls Terror suspects to hand
over their clothes to be searched to
ensure they aren't concealing explosive
vests or other weapons the Army says the
clothes are not immediately returned to
the detainees in case they conceal
something that could be used for hostile
purposes it adds that the clothing is
returned to the detainees when it's
possible to do so well since the
beginning of its war on Gaza the Israeli
Army has detained hundreds of men and
boys some Palestinians released by the
military have been talking about their
treatment at the hands of Israeli
soldiers accusing them of torture and
humiliation a warning viewers may find
some of these firsthand accounts
distressing
for
fore
foree
[Music]
for
tristino mariniello is a professor of
law at Liverpool John Moos University a
specialist in international law and a
member of the legal team representing
Gaza victims before the international
criminal court he joins me live now from
Liverpool thank you so much for being on
elera first of all we've seen this video
uh that has uh been released in the last
few hours over the last day or so uh
showing boys Palestinian boys and men
being stripped to their underwear in the
uh Sports stadium in Gaza what is your
initial reaction to that
video well first of all many thanks for
having me today I think the video clear
clearly shows de humanization of
Palestinians including children that we
have seen in this we have seen in this
video and this dehumanization reflects
the rethoric of the Israeli Minister of
Defense Gan that since the beginning of
the war has said that Palestinians are
human animals and have to be treated as
such and this video really reflects this
words uh de humanization means a
violation of international law in
particular of international humanitarian
law that applies because this is an
armed conflict and international human
rights law because we have Assist to the
commission of inum and deg grating
treatment of
Palestinians International humanitarian
law provides protection which means in
this case Humane treatment and this
applies to everyone applies the human
being treated humanly in the context of
hared conflict applies to everyone so to
civilians but also to members of armed
groups if Israel were able to prove that
there are members of Palestinian hmed
groups among these these people and this
protection is absolute absolute in legal
terms means that there is no derogation
in other words there is no military
necessity or emergency that that issue
that Israel can use in order to justify
and human or degrading treatment on
Palestinians yeah well what does this
type of treatment do to the psyche of
someone who has been detained especially
uh the young boys that have faced this
treatment well as I said I mean the
protection provided under International
humanitarian law international human
rights law are clear in this regard
being
treating uh humanly means prohibition
absolute prohibition of torture ill
treatment and any form of degrading of
degrading treatment we have seen that
this is not this video does not show
isolated act this may appear as a part
of mass arrest campaign put in place by
the IDF in by the Israel defenses forces
in Gaza in relation to this mass arrest
campaign human rights groups including
Amnesty International have reported
serious allegations of serious violation
of international law including torture
ill treatment enforced disappearances
executions and even in the West Bank
have been reporting including by the
Israeli newspaper hars the death of some
Palestinian deonis by the Israeli
Security Forces it must be clear that
these are not only violation of
international law which entail the state
responsibility all the responsibility of
Israel as a state but this also amount
to war crimes and crimes against
humanity and as such they they demand an
urgent investigation by independent
institution independent means for sure
not Israeli military system which has
shown has reported by the UN that it's
not uh willing and able to provide
Justice to Palestinians in relation to
this yeah from from a legal point of
view given all of that what how you've
what you've just explained there what
can you and other a international groups
actually
do well uh what human rights groups in
particular Palestinian Civil Society
both in the West Bank and the Gaza
Street do is presenting evidence
submission to the office of the
prosecutor of the international criminal
court the international criminal court
has jurisdiction over the alleged
Commission of international crimes in
this context as repeated by the
prosecutor in these past few days it's
it's frustrating for the Palestinian
victims and also for human rights groups
Palestinian Civil Society that the
prosecutor has very uh firmly condemned
Hamas attacks from the 7 of October and
that's part of his Mandate of course but
it's been very reluctant to put in place
any effective investigation in relation
to alleged International crimes
committed against Palestinians I mean
what we see is the repetition of double
standards by the office of the
prosecutor which are unacceptable
particularly light of the unfolding
genocide in Gaza indeed thank you so
much we really do appreciate your time
that is tristino Marini ELO thank
you thank you